Name
	AI - artificial intelligence policy

Description
	It is expressly forbidden to contribute to this project any
	content that has been created with the assistance of
	AI tools.

	The use of AI tools should be minimal, limited to reviewing
	a contribution once it's almost finished.  Use of AI tools in
	the process of a contribution should be disclosed explicitly and
	clearly.  If such use of AI tools resulted in changing the
	contribution in any way --for example, if an AI-based static
	analyzer detected a bug, which was fixed before sending the
	contribution--, this should be disclosed explicitly with more
	detail.

    Exceptions
	As an exception to the above, AI assistive tools which don't
	have any influence on the contribution other than enabling the
	contributor to work with their computer (e.g., screen reader,
	text to speech) --where the contributor verifies the output to
	the best of their ability-- are allowed, and the contributor
	need not disclose their use.

    Concerns
	Copyright concerns.
		At this point, the regulations concerning copyright of
		generated contents are still emerging worldwide.  Using
		such material could pose a danger of copyright
		violations, but it could also weaken claims to copyright
		and void the guarantees given by copyleft licensing.

	Quality concerns.
		Popular LLMs are really great at generating plausibly
		looking, but meaningless content.  They pose both the
		risk of lowering the quality of a project, and of
		requiring an unfair human effort from contributors and
		maintainers to review contributions and detect the
		mistakes resulting from the use of AI.

	Ethical concerns.
		The business side of AI boom is creating serious ethical
		concerns.  Among them:

		-  Commercial AI projects are frequently indulging in
		   blatant copyright violations to train their models.
		-  Their operations are causing concerns about the huge
		   use of energy, water, and other natural resources.
		-  The advertising and use of AI models has caused
		   a significant harm to employees and reduction of
		   service quality.
		-  LLMs have been empowering all kinds of spam and scam
		   efforts.

Caveats
	This policy can be revisited, should a case be made over such
	a tool that does not pose copyright, quality, or ethical
	concerns.

	We will reject patches were the use of AI is not anecdotical.

Copyright
	Text derived from --but different than-- the Gentoo project
	AI policy
	<https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Council/AI_policy>.

	SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
